Right now we've seen how to fade in and out content.
We're going to start animating our content.
So we're going to get some great looking stuff moving all over the place.
So I'm going to quickly go back to my green circle
guy we get add the CSSA back in say with of 150 pixels height to 150 pixels for a radius 50 percent
and background color
that we get.
So let's animate this circle.
First off once again to make sure that it's completely in your head can you set up a function that does
something I don't care what when the circle is clicked go for it.
All right.
You should have had a string and then are selected for the circle hash circle and then click and we
want to add a function with parentheses and then
I'll just do a quick test with something like that.
All right there we get it all connected up nicely.
So how does the J queery animate function work.
Well it's much like you would expect but there's a couple of slight complications to it.
So first off let's say we want to use this as a selector just to remind ourselves that exists.
And of course if we click on the circle then this is going to be the circle and if we want to animate
it fast it's easy enough.
We use the animate function and then we have to put some properties in.
First off the CSSA properties that we wanted to have at the end of the animation.
So let's say we want to increase it's with 400 pixels.
Gradually as the process of an animation the what we would do is we'd give the width and we then state
in quotes what we wanted that to be.
So 400 pixels like that.
However because this could be one of a number of different CSSA properties we could have several here
in one go as we will do in a minute.
We need this to be an array and to define it as an array.
We put it in brackets like that.
So that doesn't mean that this is a function or anything.
It means that this is one of potentially many CSSA instructions that we could put in that.
And in a minute we'll see how we can add other ones as well.
And then the other property that we need to give the animate function is the amount of time that we
want to take the animation.
So it's in milliseconds.
So let's go for something like 2000 milliseconds which would be two seconds all right.
So that will increase the width to 400 over to two seconds.
Let's take a look.
There it goes.
Nice notice because we've set the border radius to 50 percent.
It's still not quite circular as such but the border is at least all the way round it doesn't become
a rounded rectangle.
All right so let's have some real fun.
What if we wanted to change some more CSSA properties at the same time.
Well let's say we wanted to change the height to 400 pixels as well.
We put a comma in there and then we specify that we want the height to be and in quite spot wherever
we want it to be.
So again 400 pixels.
Let's have a look at that area.
It's an hour grows in both width and height.
Now if we add many more of these it's going to get a bit confusing having them all on the same line
running on after each other.
So the general convention is to put our different attributes on different lines
like that.
And that's just a lot easier to read.
We can see the different attributes that we're changing and add them or remove them very quickly as
necessary.
So remember you always need a camera in front of them.
Let's say we wanted to move it around a little bit as well.
So we'll change the margins.
Now we use the javascript names for DSS properties here not the CSX names so instead of Marge dash left
we use margin and then left with a capital L.
They're pretty easy to translate just whenever you see a hyphen or a dash.
Take it away and then capitalize the word after it.
So I imagine left let's change that to 100 pixels
and let's add in Margene top of 100 pixels as well.
All right let's take a look.
Every guy is moving and growing at the same time.
All right.
So feel free to mess around with that and change the animations as you wish.
One final little challenge for you is can you figure out a way to say change the background color of
this circle to read the moment the animation completes.
Go for it.
All right did you figure that one out.
Not super easy.
We can add a callback function in the animate function just as we have done with fading in and out.
So we had it as an extra property in the function call and then function and parentheses
and then our curly brackets to contain whatever code we want to happen when the animation is complete.
And the things we want to do is to set the background of this thing to read say selected again using
this.
And we set the background to read using SS and background color and rate.
Simple as that.
Let's take a look.
Wonderful.
So hopefully you could imagine using that on your website if you want to provide a bit of interactivity
and allow things to move or change size when they're clicked on.
And why not do it with a little bit of animation to make a web site that bit more fun to use.
Now talking of fun to use one huge innovation in recent years on the web is the creation of web apps
and the primary differentiator of a web app is one way you can control and do a number of different
things on the page without reloading the page or clicking on a link to go on a new page.
And the vast majority of that happens using a technology called Ajax and that's what we're going to
look at in the next video.